README.md, before:

# SuperWhisper Recording Analysis 🎙️📊

A comprehensive Python toolkit for analyzing SuperWhisper voice recording data, providing detailed insights into your recording habits, productivity gains, and time savings from speaking vs typing.

## 🚀 Features

- **Comprehensive Recording Analysis**: Daily, weekly, and monthly statistics
- **Text Content Analysis**: Character counts, word estimates, and content insights
- **Time Savings Calculator**: Compare speaking vs typing efficiency across different typing speeds
- **Productivity Metrics**: Track your speaking speed, efficiency gains, and daily productivity impact
- **Beautiful Visualizations**: 8+ detailed charts showing your recording patterns and trends
- **AI-Powered Summaries**: Generate shareable insights using OpenAI or Anthropic APIs
- **iCloud Optimization**: Smart caching system to handle iCloud sync delays
- **Fast Processing**: Parallel processing with progress bars for large datasets

## 📈 What You'll Discover

- How many hours you've recorded and how much text you've generated
- Time saved vs different typing speeds (casual, professional, fast)
- Your speaking patterns by hour of day and day of week
- Recording duration trends and productivity insights
- Cumulative time savings and efficiency metrics
- Your most productive days and content insights
- AI-generated shareable summaries perfect for social media and presentations

## 🗣️ Example: Recent Activity Insights

Here's a sample of the user-friendly insights you'll get about your voice recording habits:

> **In the last 30 days**, I've been talking instead of typing - and it's completely changed my daily routine! Imagine having a casual 40-minute conversation every day; that's about how much I speak to my device. I average about 4,200 words daily, which is roughly the length of a lengthy blog post or a short story.
>
> Here's what amazes me: **I'm saving nearly 20 hours per month** just by speaking instead of typing. That's like getting back an entire weekend! I find myself reaching for voice input about 69 times throughout the day - pretty much whenever I need to write anything longer than a quick text.
>
> The coolest part? I'm speaking at a comfortable pace (about 113 words per minute), which is nearly twice as fast as if I were typing. It's like the difference between walking and riding a bike - same destination, but you get there so much quicker! I tend to be most chatty on Wednesday afternoons, usually around 1 PM when my creative energy is flowing.
>
> If you're curious about trying voice-to-text, I'd absolutely recommend it. It's as simple as talking to a friend, and you might be surprised how natural it feels after just a few days. Think about all the things you could do with an extra 20 hours a month - that's a lot of Netflix shows, walks in the park, or quality time with family!

*This is the kind of personal, relatable summary the AI generator creates from your own SuperWhisper data - perfect for sharing with friends or inspiring others to try voice-to-text technology!*

### 📊 Underlying Data Structure

Here's the actual data that gets sent to the AI to generate the above summary:

```
RECENT ACTIVITY DATA (Last 30 Days):
- Daily talking habit: 4,200 words per day on average
- Time spent talking: 40.0 minutes per day
- Time saved vs typing: 1,200 minutes total (40.0 min/day)
- How often I use voice: 68.8 times per day
- Recent productivity: Generated 126,092 words in 30 days

OVERALL CONTEXT:
- Total experience: February 09, 2025 to June 11, 2025
- Speaking speed: 112.6 words per minute
- vs Professional typing: 1.9x faster
- Peak day was: March 03, 2025 (89.5 minutes)
- Most active time: Wednesdays at 1:00
```

*The AI transforms these raw metrics into engaging, relatable stories that anyone can understand and share.*

## 🛠️ Installation

1. **Clone the repository**:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/~/superwhisper-analysis.git
cd superwhisper-analysis
```

2. **Install dependencies**:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. **Optional: Install AI dependencies** (for summary generation):
```bash
# For OpenAI GPT-4 summaries
pip install openai

# OR for Anthropic Claude summaries  
pip install anthropic
```

## 📁 Setup

1. **Configure your SuperWhisper recordings path** in `config.py`:
```python
RECORDINGS_PATH = "~/Documents/superwhisper/recordings"
```

2. **Make sure your SuperWhisper recordings are accessible** (if using iCloud, ensure they're downloaded locally or the script will handle the sync automatically)

## 🎯 Usage

### Quick Start - Full Analysis
```bash
python superwhisper_analysis_fast.py
```

### Text Analysis & Time Savings
```bash
python superwhisper_text_analysis.py
```

### AI-Powered Summary Generation
```bash
python ai_summary_generator.py
```
Creates beautiful, shareable summaries perfect for LinkedIn, blogs, or presentations using OpenAI or Anthropic APIs.

**Features:**
- Choose between OpenAI (GPT-4) or Anthropic (Claude) 
- Works without AI (fallback summary)
- Generates markdown formatted summaries
- Perfect for social media posts and presentations

### First Run (Large Dataset)
The first run will:
- Cache all `meta.json` files locally for faster future processing
- Process files in parallel to handle large datasets efficiently
- Create a `.pkl` cache file for instant future analysis

**Expected time**: ~10 minutes for 7,000+ recordings
**Future runs**: ~5 seconds (uses cache)

## 📊 Output Files

The analysis generates several files:

### Visualizations (Main Directory)
- `superwhisper_analysis_fast.png` - 8 comprehensive charts showing recording patterns
- `superwhisper_text_analysis.png` - Text analysis and time savings visualizations

### Data Files (data/ Directory)
- `data/recordings_detailed_fast.csv` - Complete dataset with all metrics
- `data/daily_stats_fast.csv` - Daily aggregated statistics
- `data/weekly_stats_fast.csv` - Weekly aggregated statistics  
- `data/monthly_stats_fast.csv` - Monthly aggregated statistics
- `data/recordings_text_analysis.csv` - Enhanced data with text analysis and time savings
- `data/superwhisper_summary.md` - AI-generated shareable summary (markdown format)

### Cache Files
- `recordings_cache.pkl` - Processed data cache for fast future runs
- `cache_meta_files/` - Local cache of meta.json files

## 📋 Sample Output

```
📊 OVERALL STATISTICS
Total Recordings:         7,688
Total Recording Time:     46.9 hours
Average Duration:         0.4 minutes
Date Range:               2025-02-09 to 2025-06-11

⏱️ TIME SAVINGS ANALYSIS
Recording Time:           46.9 hours

TIME SAVED vs DIFFERENT TYPING SPEEDS:
vs Casual Typing (35 WPM):     106.0 hours (6362 min)
vs Professional (60 WPM):      44.2 hours (2652 min)
vs Fast Typing (80 WPM):       23.5 hours (1408 min)

📝 TEXT CONTENT STATISTICS
Total Characters:         1,600,590
Total Estimated Words:    317,069
Average Speaking Speed:   126.7 WPM
```

## 🔧 Configuration

Edit `config.py` to customize:
- Recording path location
- Analysis parameters
- Output preferences
- Typing speed benchmarks

## 📱 SuperWhisper App

This tool analyzes data from the [SuperWhisper](https://superwhisper.com/) macOS app - an AI-powered voice-to-text application that creates local recordings with detailed metadata.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## 📄 License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

## ⚠️ Privacy Note

This tool processes data locally and does not send any information to external servers. All analysis is performed on your machine using the metadata from your SuperWhisper recordings.

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### iCloud Sync Issues
If you encounter slow processing due to iCloud sync:
- The script automatically handles this by creating a local cache
- First run may take longer as files download from iCloud
- Subsequent runs will be much faster using the local cache

### Large Datasets
For datasets with thousands of recordings:
- Use `superwhisper_analysis_fast.py` for optimized processing
- Enable parallel processing (default: 8 workers)
- Monitor progress with built-in progress bars

### Memory Issues
If you encounter memory issues with very large datasets:
- The script processes data in chunks
- Cache files help reduce memory usage
- Consider running analysis on smaller date ranges if needed

## 📞 Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please open an issue on GitHub.

---

**Made with ❤️ for SuperWhisper users who want to understand their voice recording patterns and productivity gains.**

Commit message:

🌊 Enhance Recent Activity Summary with natural flow and multitasking benefits - Updated AI prompt to emphasize hands-free freedom, multitasking while directing AI tools, workflow continuity, and freedom of movement. Enhanced README example shows conducting an orchestra vs playing every instrument, gesture while thinking, and working while pacing - transforms voice input from speed tool to natural interaction paradigm

README.md, after:

# SuperWhisper Recording Analysis 🎙️📊

A comprehensive Python toolkit for analyzing SuperWhisper voice recording data, providing detailed insights into your recording habits, productivity gains, and time savings from speaking vs typing.

## 🚀 Features

- **Comprehensive Recording Analysis**: Daily, weekly, and monthly statistics
- **Text Content Analysis**: Character counts, word estimates, and content insights
- **Time Savings Calculator**: Compare speaking vs typing efficiency across different typing speeds
- **Productivity Metrics**: Track your speaking speed, efficiency gains, and daily productivity impact
- **Beautiful Visualizations**: 8+ detailed charts showing your recording patterns and trends
- **AI-Powered Summaries**: Generate shareable insights using OpenAI or Anthropic APIs
- **iCloud Optimization**: Smart caching system to handle iCloud sync delays
- **Fast Processing**: Parallel processing with progress bars for large datasets

## 📈 What You'll Discover

- How many hours you've recorded and how much text you've generated
- Time saved vs different typing speeds (casual, professional, fast)
- Your speaking patterns by hour of day and day of week
- Recording duration trends and productivity insights
- Cumulative time savings and efficiency metrics
- Your most productive days and content insights
- AI-generated shareable summaries perfect for social media and presentations

## 🗣️ Example: Recent Activity Insights

Here's a sample of the user-friendly insights you'll get about your voice recording habits:

> **In the last 30 days**, I've discovered that talking to my computer is completely changing how I work - and the numbers tell quite a story! I speak about 4,200 words daily (think: the length of a detailed blog post) in just 40 minutes of talking time. That's saving me nearly 20 hours of typing this month alone!
>
> What I love most isn't just the time savings - it's how natural everything feels now. Instead of being hunched over a keyboard, I can lean back in my chair, gesture while I think, and watch my words appear on screen while my hands are free to point things out or grab a coffee. It's like having a conversation with a really good assistant who types everything perfectly.
>
> The freedom to multitask is game-changing. When working with AI tools, I can direct changes and watch them happen in real-time, like conducting an orchestra instead of playing every instrument myself. I find myself expressing ideas more naturally too - speaking around 113 words per minute feels so much more fluid than typing.
>
> I typically use voice input about 69 times throughout the day, usually hitting my stride on Wednesday afternoons. It's become as natural as talking on the phone, but instead of calling someone, I'm creating documents, writing emails, or coding while keeping my workflow smooth and uninterrupted.
>
> If you've been curious about trying voice input, these numbers show it's not just a gimmick - it's a genuinely different way to work with your computer. Imagine being able to work while pacing around your office or gesturing to emphasize points during a presentation. That's the kind of freedom voice input gives you. Why not give it a try? Your voice might just become your new favorite productivity tool!

*This is the kind of personal, relatable summary the AI generator creates from your own SuperWhisper data - perfect for sharing with friends or inspiring others to try voice-to-text technology!*

### 📊 Underlying Data Structure

Here's the actual data that gets sent to the AI to generate the above summary:

```
RECENT ACTIVITY DATA (Last 30 Days):
- Daily talking habit: 4,200 words per day on average
- Time spent talking: 40.0 minutes per day
- Time saved vs typing: 1,200 minutes total (40.0 min/day)
- How often I use voice: 68.8 times per day
- Recent productivity: Generated 126,092 words in 30 days

OVERALL CONTEXT:
- Total experience: February 09, 2025 to June 11, 2025
- Speaking speed: 112.6 words per minute
- vs Professional typing: 1.9x faster
- Peak day was: March 03, 2025 (89.5 minutes)
- Most active time: Wednesdays at 1:00
```

*The AI transforms these raw metrics into engaging, relatable stories that anyone can understand and share.*

## 🛠️ Installation

1. **Clone the repository**:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/~/superwhisper-analysis.git
cd superwhisper-analysis
```

2. **Install dependencies**:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. **Optional: Install AI dependencies** (for summary generation):
```bash
# For OpenAI GPT-4 summaries
pip install openai

# OR for Anthropic Claude summaries  
pip install anthropic
```

## 📁 Setup

1. **Configure your SuperWhisper recordings path** in `config.py`:
```python
RECORDINGS_PATH = "~/Documents/superwhisper/recordings"
```

2. **Make sure your SuperWhisper recordings are accessible** (if using iCloud, ensure they're downloaded locally or the script will handle the sync automatically)

## 🎯 Usage

### Quick Start - Full Analysis
```bash
python superwhisper_analysis_fast.py
```

### Text Analysis & Time Savings
```bash
python superwhisper_text_analysis.py
```

### AI-Powered Summary Generation
```bash
python ai_summary_generator.py
```
Creates beautiful, shareable summaries perfect for LinkedIn, blogs, or presentations using OpenAI or Anthropic APIs.

**Features:**
- Choose between OpenAI (GPT-4) or Anthropic (Claude) 
- Works without AI (fallback summary)
- Generates markdown formatted summaries
- Perfect for social media posts and presentations

### First Run (Large Dataset)
The first run will:
- Cache all `meta.json` files locally for faster future processing
- Process files in parallel to handle large datasets efficiently
- Create a `.pkl` cache file for instant future analysis

**Expected time**: ~10 minutes for 7,000+ recordings
**Future runs**: ~5 seconds (uses cache)

## 📊 Output Files

The analysis generates several files:

### Visualizations (Main Directory)
- `superwhisper_analysis_fast.png` - 8 comprehensive charts showing recording patterns
- `superwhisper_text_analysis.png` - Text analysis and time savings visualizations

### Data Files (data/ Directory)
- `data/recordings_detailed_fast.csv` - Complete dataset with all metrics
- `data/daily_stats_fast.csv` - Daily aggregated statistics
- `data/weekly_stats_fast.csv` - Weekly aggregated statistics  
- `data/monthly_stats_fast.csv` - Monthly aggregated statistics
- `data/recordings_text_analysis.csv` - Enhanced data with text analysis and time savings
- `data/superwhisper_summary.md` - AI-generated shareable summary (markdown format)

### Cache Files
- `recordings_cache.pkl` - Processed data cache for fast future runs
- `cache_meta_files/` - Local cache of meta.json files

## 📋 Sample Output

```
📊 OVERALL STATISTICS
Total Recordings:         7,688
Total Recording Time:     46.9 hours
Average Duration:         0.4 minutes
Date Range:               2025-02-09 to 2025-06-11

⏱️ TIME SAVINGS ANALYSIS
Recording Time:           46.9 hours

TIME SAVED vs DIFFERENT TYPING SPEEDS:
vs Casual Typing (35 WPM):     106.0 hours (6362 min)
vs Professional (60 WPM):      44.2 hours (2652 min)
vs Fast Typing (80 WPM):       23.5 hours (1408 min)

📝 TEXT CONTENT STATISTICS
Total Characters:         1,600,590
Total Estimated Words:    317,069
Average Speaking Speed:   126.7 WPM
```

## 🔧 Configuration

Edit `config.py` to customize:
- Recording path location
- Analysis parameters
- Output preferences
- Typing speed benchmarks

## 📱 SuperWhisper App

This tool analyzes data from the [SuperWhisper](https://superwhisper.com/) macOS app - an AI-powered voice-to-text application that creates local recordings with detailed metadata.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## 📄 License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details

## ⚠️ Privacy Note

This tool processes data locally and does not send any information to external servers. All analysis is performed on your machine using the metadata from your SuperWhisper recordings.

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### iCloud Sync Issues
If you encounter slow processing due to iCloud sync:
- The script automatically handles this by creating a local cache
- First run may take longer as files download from iCloud
- Subsequent runs will be much faster using the local cache

### Large Datasets
For datasets with thousands of recordings:
- Use `superwhisper_analysis_fast.py` for optimized processing
- Enable parallel processing (default: 8 workers)
- Monitor progress with built-in progress bars

### Memory Issues
If you encounter memory issues with very large datasets:
- The script processes data in chunks
- Cache files help reduce memory usage
- Consider running analysis on smaller date ranges if needed

## 📞 Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please open an issue on GitHub.

---

**Made with ❤️ for SuperWhisper users who want to understand their voice recording patterns and productivity gains.**
